---
title: Unit Tested Controllers
layout: post 
abstract: Integration testing controllers is slow, why not unit test them?
---
Unit Tested Controllers in Ruby On Rails
=========================================

Fast tests good, slow tests bad.
-----------------------------------------

Testing controllers in Rails using the default test setup is slow. In
fact testing a lot of Rails is slow, wether you use RSpec or TestUnit,
it makes no difference. The cause is the architecture of Rails, and the
default test setups which encourage you to write integration tests, often
without need. When it comes to your controller tests, even if your mockist
and using test doubles everywhere if your using `rspec-rails` (or the test
unit equivalent) then Rails is being booted and the request generated by
passing through the stack down into your controller.

That's slow! Slow tests lengthen the feedback cycle leading to
interuptions in your train of thought and work, and this is what often leads
people to question the usefulness of tests at all. There is an argument for
not testing controllers at all, if you're farming out all your logic to
a service layer, or if you're leaving it languishing in your models; but
if your controllers are reacting to context changes, or handling errors
properly, if there are any control path changes, you *should* test your
controllers.

However in most of the test suites for Rails controllers that I've seen, the
intent of the tests is to specify what a particular action does in those
particular contexts. I've yet to come across, and I hope to never come
across, a Rails controller action which reacts differently to
GET/POST/PUT etc... it is better to route to different actions and test,
if you must, those routes.

So rather than essentially writing integration tests for our
controllers, why don't we unit test them? A controller is a class in
it's own right after all, and an action is just a method. We can test
that like we would test anything else.

Take an overly simplified example (a cliché of blog posts right?).

<script src="https://gist.github.com/2049753.js?file=example_controller_spec.rb">
</script>

As you can see it's not very exciting, notice though that we are doing
the setup in the before block (in this case mocking out a service call
with a set of params), and that in the subject we are just taking an
initialized controller and calling the eventual method. There is nothing
stopping you from turning this into an integration test (by not mocking
the service call), but we have still not gotten the rails stack involved
up to this point.

Ah but what about that magic require at the top I hear you say, what is
that doing? Well...

<script src="https://gist.github.com/2049753.js?file=controller_bootstrap.rb">
</script>

It's faking out a few things we might need to use, loading
`ActionController`, our base `ApplicationController` and adding a helper
to initialize the controller in question. The fake request object passed
in allows you to configure the Rails controller staple's of sessions and
params. Note you don't have to stub out the redirect / render like I have,
it just makes it more isolated.

The net result of our tinkering? Sub second boottime, (all bundler), and
this spec file runs in 0.002 seconds. So in future, prehaps you should
think about your controller tests before you follow the rails way...

Thoughts? Questions? Queries? Trolling? Find me on
[Twitter]( https://twitter.com/jonrowe)
