---
title: Be cool
layout: post
abstract: On working with open source projects and encountering issues.
---
Be cool
=========================================
18/11/2013
-----------------------------------------

**Full disclosure**
I am one of the core team for the popular RSpec testing
tool. I feel that I and the rest of the team, Myron Marston, Sam Phippen,
Xavier Shay, Bradley Schaefer and David Chelimsky are pretty approachable
when it comes to sorting issues and fixing bugs. We can be found on Github,
Twitter, IRC, by mailing list or even via direct email.

Today I came across an article <sub>[<a href="#1">1</a>]</sub> written by a
fellow Ruby developer, in it the author has an issue with RSpec, not in itself
unusual, but what irked me was the attitude of the developer. I'm no stranger
to listening to people who are annoyed or frustrated with something that
doesn't work, or perhaps just doesn't function how they would like. I try my
best to explain, to discuss or engage and help people, so when someone just
straight away turns to venting on a public platform with no interest in
actually solving their problem it rubs me the wrong way. As far as I know
there has never been a report of this issue, neither via Github or other means
of contact, so the developer has suffered from this issue enough to write a
ranting blog post, but has never put the modest amount of effort required to
open an issue and help us fix this?

Naturally wanting to help I tried to replicate<sub>[<a href="#2">2</a>]</sub>
the symptoms of our troubled friend but using the samples shown on the post
hasn't resulted in the same set of failures in either our current release
version `2.14` and pre-release `3.0.0.beta1`. I've attempted to reach out to
the developer (via twitter), so we'll see how that goes. If anyone else can
replicate it I'd love to here from you, but in the mean time...

# An open plea...

When you experience an issue with an open source project, don't just ignore it;
or rage quit and rant on your blog, instead please remember that behind that
project are people. People who probably work hard on that project and
are not necessarily paid for their contributions; people who are probably
willing to help you, or at least will be grateful for your help in reporting the
problem so they can fix it for others.

So please report issues, preferably with the minimal amount of code required to
reproduce the issue and with the minimal amount of dependencies. Every piece
of complexity adds more stones to turn to uncover the source of the problem,
but generally speaking if you can produce an executable test case for an
issue people will work to fix it. As soon as you can see a problem happening
it's easier to fix.

Oh and for the record I have no problem with people choosing to use other tools
that better suit their needs, and frequently get to 'light heartedly' debate
this with Ruby developers at the local Sydney Ruby meetups, but I do resent it
when people do so with brash language and hating on other peoples work.

Be cool man.

\#1
<a id="1" title="http://ilyabylich.svbtle.com/rspec-is-not-so-cool"
           href="http://ilyabylich.svbtle.com/rspec-is-not-so-cool" >
http://ilyabylich.svbtle.com/rspec-is-not-so-cool
</a>
<br />
\#2
<a id="2" title="https://gist.github.com/JonRowe/69e6371ac83165d1bbe1"
           href="https://gist.github.com/JonRowe/69e6371ac83165d1bbe1" >
https://gist.github.com/JonRowe/69e6371ac83165d1bbe1
</a>

<br />

